[KB-248] MinMax Normalization (#154)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_thesis/src/sections/background.tex

\subsubsection{Max Absolute Scaler}

\subsubsection{Min-Max Normalization}

> Min-Max normalization rescales the range of features to $[0, 1]$ or $[a, b]$. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Min-max normalization rescales the range of features to $[0, 1]$ or $[a, b]$. 
```

> The goal is to normalize the range of the data to a specific scale, typically 0 to 1. The formula for Min-Max normalization is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to normalize the range of the data to a specific scale, typically 0 to 1. 
Mathematically, min-max normalization is defined as:
```

$$ 

> 	v' = \frac{v - \min(F)}{\max(F) - \min(F)} \times (new max - new min) + new min

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	v' = \frac{v - \min(F)}{\max(F) - \min(F)} \times (new max - new min) + new min,
```

$$

where $v$ is the original value, $\min(F)$ and $\max(F)$ are the minimum and maximum values of the feature $F$ respectively, and $new min$ and $new max$ define the range of the transformed data. 

> This type of normalization is particularly useful when algorithms such as neural networks are sensitive to the magnitude of input features and require normalization to ensure more effective and faster convergence~\cite{dataminingConcepts}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This type of normalization is particularly useful when algorithms, such as neural networks, are sensitive to the magnitude of input features. 
Normalizing ensures that each feature contributes equally to the result, leading to more effective and faster convergence.
```

\subsubsection{Max Absolute Scaler}

\subsubsection{Min-Max Normalization}

> Min-max normalization rescales the range of features to $[0, 1]$ or $[a, b]$. 

Reviewer 2: you use $a$ and $b$ but don't reuse them in the formula below. i'd say that would be better than $new max$ and $new min$.

The goal is to normalize the range of the data to a specific scale, typically 0 to 1. 
Mathematically, min-max normalization is defined as:

$$ 
	v' = \frac{v - \min(F)}{\max(F) - \min(F)} \times (new max - new min) + new min,
$$

> where $v$ is the original value, $\min(F)$ and $\max(F)$ are the minimum and maximum values of the feature $F$, respectively, and $new min$ and $new max$ define the range of the transformed data. 

Reviewer 2: also looks bad

> and $new min$ and $new max$ define the range of the transformed data.

This type of normalization is particularly useful when algorithms, such as neural networks, are sensitive to the magnitude of input features. 

> Normalizing ensures that each feature contributes equally to the result, leading to more effective and faster convergence.

Reviewer 2: to which result?

section reads mostly geared towards neural nets / other algs that use gradient descent, no?

This maintains the sparsity of the data by not introducing non-zero values in the zero entries of the data~\cite{Vasques2024}.

\subsubsection{Min-Max Normalization}\label{subsec:min-max}
Min-max normalization rescales the range of features to $[0, 1]$ or $[a, b]$, where $a$ and $b$ represent the new minimum and maximum values, respectively. 
The goal is to normalize the range of the data to a specific scale, typically 0 to 1. 
Mathematically, min-max normalization is defined as:
$$ 
	v' = \frac{v - \min(F)}{\max(F) - \min(F)} \times (b - a) + a,
$$
where $v$ is the original value, $\min(F)$ and $\max(F)$ are the minimum and maximum values of the feature $F$, respectively. 

> This type of normalization is beneficial because it ensures that each feature contributes equally to the analysis, regardless of its original scale. This balanced contribution helps improve the performance and convergence speed of many algorithms, making the learning process more effective and efficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This type of normalization is beneficial because it ensures that each feature contributes equally to the analysis, regardless of its original scale.
```
